Themes update docs (#883)
telerik/blazor-docs: styling-and-themes/swatch-distribution.md

---
title: Swatch Distribution
page_title: Swatch Distribution
description: The UI for Blazor suite distributes most commonly used swatches. Explore how you can access them.

> slug: swatch-distribution

Reviewer: Maybe follow the previous pattern -
```suggestion
slug: themes-swatch-distribution
```

tags: telerik,blazor,theme,swatch,distribution
published: True
position: 2
---

# Swatch Distribution

Telerik UI for Blazor distributes the most commonly used swatches. While it is possiblle to get them from the [Themes CDN]({%slug themes-swatches%}#buit-in-themes-and-swatches-list), the [Sass Theme Builder]({%slug themes-custom%}#using-the-sass-theme-builder) or the [kendo-themes repository](https://github.com/telerik/kendo-themes), this article lists a couple other ways of distribution.

>caption In this article:

* [Distributed Swatches](#distributed-swatches)
* [Distribution Options](#distribution-options)
    * [Telerik Blazor CDN](#telerik-blazor-cdn)
    * [ZIP archive](#zip-archive)

>     * [VS and VS Code Wizard](#vs-and-vs-code-wizard)

Reviewer: We shouldn't abbreviate trademarks in official documentation.

Author: Fixed

# Distributed Swatches

The following swatches are statistically most used, so we've included them in our [live demos](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/grid/overview) to allow easy testing. In addition, we are also distributing them via [several resources](#distribution-options).

Telerik UI for Blazor distributed swatches:

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/parameters-table-styles.md#table-layout)

| Default    | Bootstrap  | Material |
| ----------- | ----------- | -------|
| Main | Main | Main
| Main Dark | Main Dark | Arctic
| [Ocean Blue]({%slug accessibility-swatch%}) | Nordic | Nova 
| Nordic | Urban | Lime Dark
| Purple | Vintage | Main Dark
| Turquoise 

## Distribution Options

The above listed swatches are distributed in several ways:

### Telerik Blazor CDN

A dedicated Telerik UI for Blazor CDN hosts them in the `swatches` folder of the corresponding base theme. Below you will find a list of the distributed swatches and their CDN URLs.

> The CDN URLs contain the Telerik UI for Blazor version. Thus, you do not need to manually track the theme compatibility, just make sure to use the CDN including your UI for Blazor version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CDN URLs contain the Telerik UI for Blazor version. Thus, you do not need to manually track the theme compatibility. Just make sure to use your UI for Blazor version in the CDN URL.
```

| Urban | https://blazor.cdn.telerik.com/blazor/{{site.uiForBlazorLatestVersion}}/kendo-theme-bootstrap/swatches/bootstrap-urban.css
| Vintage | https://blazor.cdn.telerik.com/blazor/{{site.uiForBlazorLatestVersion}}/kendo-theme-bootstrap/swatches/bootstrap-vintage.css

#### Material

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/parameters-table-styles.md#table-layout)

Swatch | CDN |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| Main | https://blazor.cdn.telerik.com/blazor/{{site.uiForBlazorLatestVersion}}/kendo-theme-material/swatches/material-main.css
| Arctic | https://blazor.cdn.telerik.com/blazor/{{site.uiForBlazorLatestVersion}}/kendo-theme-material/swatches/material-arctic.css
| Nova | https://blazor.cdn.telerik.com/blazor/{{site.uiForBlazorLatestVersion}}/kendo-theme-material/swatches/material-nova.css
| Lime Dark | https://blazor.cdn.telerik.com/blazor/{{site.uiForBlazorLatestVersion}}/kendo-theme-material/swatches/material-lime-dark.css
| Main Dark | https://blazor.cdn.telerik.com/blazor/{{site.uiForBlazorLatestVersion}}/kendo-theme-material/swatches/material-main-dark.css

### ZIP archive

> One of the ways to install Telerik UI for Blazor is to use the ZIP Archive. Its `styles` folder contains all of the above listed swtaches. You can download it from your [Telerik account](https://www.telerik.com/account/). [Read more for the ZIP Archive]({%slug installation/zip%})...

Reviewer: Split link text with some non-link content.
```suggestion
One of the ways to install Telerik UI for Blazor is to use the ZIP Archive. Its `styles` folder contains all the above swatches. You can [download it from your Telerik account](https://www.telerik.com/account/downloads). Here is [more information about the ZIP Archive]({%slug installation/zip%})...
```

### VS and VS Code Wizard

You can use the Telerik Blazor Extensions to easily create a new project pre-configured to use the Telerik UI for Blazor components or convert your existing one to add them. Telerik Blazor Extensions are available for Visual Studio and Visual Studio Code.

> The **Create New Project** wizard for [Visual Studio]({%slug getting-started-vs-integration-new-project%}) and [Visual Studio Code]({%slug getting-started-vs-code-integration-new-project}) allows you to also select the desired theme/swatch for your application. It provides the above list of the most commonly used swatches you can choose from.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Create New Project** wizard for [Visual Studio]({%slug getting-started-vs-integration-new-project%}) and [Visual Studio Code]({%slug getting-started-vs-code-integration-new-project%}) allows you to also select the desired theme/swatch for your application. It provides the above list of the most commonly used swatches you can choose from.
```

> The **Create New Project** wizard for [Visual Studio]({%slug getting-started-vs-integration-new-project%}) and [Visual Studio Code]({%slug getting-started-vs-code-integration-new-project%}) allows you to also select the desired theme/swatch for your application. It provides the above list of the most commonly used swatches you can choose from.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Create New Project** wizards for [Visual Studio]({%slug getting-started-vs-integration-new-project%}) and [Visual Studio Code]({%slug getting-started-vs-code-integration-new-project%}) allow you to select the desired theme/swatch for your application. The wizards provide the above list of common swatches.
```

> Once you've created the project, the selected theme will be distributed as static asset. You can find it in the `wwwroot/lib/blazor-ui/styles` folder of the application.

Reviewer: Static asset means something from the NuGet package, no? Here we should be talking about a "local file" or something like that. Also, didn't we intend to include the swatches in the NuGet package? Sync with Yoana if necessary. Otherwise, we should highlight here that upgrading UI for Blazor requires manually replacing the CSS file.

Author: This indeed has to be "local file". In this case, when the theme is referred as local file, when upgrading the user will have to manually update it.
The NuGet package will not include the swatches, the ZIP will.

> Once you've created the project, the selected theme will be locally saved in the `wwwroot/lib/blazor-ui/styles` folder of the application. Whith this congiguration, upgrading UI for Blazor requires manually replacing the CSS file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you've created the project, the selected theme will be locally saved in the `wwwroot/lib/blazor-ui/styles` folder of the application. With this configuration, upgrading UI for Blazor requires manually replacing the CSS file.
```
